In this video we're going
to develop models for
one of the decision problems that
we described in the last video.
Recall that we discussed three decision
problems that require yes or no decisions.
These decisions are modeled
with binary variables.
For the first of the three problems,
we will create a mathematical model before
developing Excel and Solver models.
This is an approach that I showed to
you in module three of this course.
Then we kind of forgot about it,
and went directly to Excel and
all the other examples that
we have worked together.
So I want to go back to the idea of
creating the math model first, and
then translating it to Excel.
The problem consists of a company that
wants to select magazine publishers for
an advertising campaign.
The data that the company has
collected is shown in this table.
The company also knows that it
costs $250 to engage a publisher.
This is a fixed cost than needs to be
paid to each publisher that is selected.
Also, the advertising budget
has been set at $25,000.
Since the company is considering
seven publishers labeled A to G,
the model will have
seven binary variables.
We're going to use the publisher
labels for the binary variables.
In this way A = 1 will indicate
that Publisher A is selected,
B = 1 will indicate that
Publisher B is selected, and so on.
The model also needs
seven interior variables
to choose the number of groups
to purchase from each publisher.
Let's go over those variables GA to GG.
So GA will be the number of groups
purchased from Publisher A.
We're now ready to formulate the problem.
Let's just start with
the objective function.
It is reasonable to think that
the company will like to maximize total
exposure while not exceeding
its advertising budget.
The total exposure is
the number of subscribers
reached by the advertising campaign.
The exposure from engaging
a publisher is the number of
groups bought from the publisher
multiplied by the size of the group.
The exposure from engaging publisher A,
for example,
is 460 subscribers times GA,
the groups bought from publisher A.
The total exposure is the sum of all
these products as shown in here.
The model has ten constraints.
The first seven constraints
restrict the purchasing of groups
only from those publishers
that have been selected.
What this means in terms of
the decision variables is that if A =
0 then GA must be = 0.
However if A = 1 then GA can
take any value between 0 and 5.
The reason for
the upper limit to B at 5 is
that this is the maximum number of groups
that can be bought from Publisher A.
This is the set of seven constraints
that model this part of the problem.
Note how the form of the constraint
enforces the logic that
the groups from a publisher can be bought
only when the publisher is selected.
The next two constraints are related
to what we mentioned in the last video
about publishers being competitors.
We have B and D, in that situation,
and also C and G.
We want constraints that will produce
solutions that do not include
the selection of both B and D or
the selection of both C and G.
There is a fairly simple way to create
a constraint to deal with this situation.
If B and D are selected then
the sum of these variables is 2.
Then, all we need to do is to restrict
this sum to be no more than 1.
If B + D is forced to be less than or
equal to 1,
then only one of them can be selected.
We do the same for C and G, as shown here.
Now we need to add the budget
constraints to complete the model.
There are two sources of cost.
The fixed cost of engaging a publisher,
and
the variable cost of purchasing groups.
A fixed cost of $250 is paid for
each publisher that is selected.
Therefore, these costs can be calculated
as the sum of all the binary
variables multiplied by 250.
The variable cost depends on the number
of groups bought from each publisher.
Since there is a cost per group for
each publisher,
then the variable cost is the product of
the number of groups and the group cost.
The sum of all these products
is the total variable cost.
The constraint is that
the sum of the fixed and
the variable cost should be less than or
equal to $25,000.
And this completes the model.
Now locate and open the Excel
file Advertising Campaign so
you can see how the mathematical model can
be translated into a spreadsheet model.
The spreadsheet has four tables.
The first small table contains
the fixed cost and the budget data.
The table just below has the publisher
data with the number of groups.
The subscriber per group,
the cost per group, and
the block of decision variables
that are highlighted in light gold.
There are two more tables
in the right side,
one with the objective function and
one with the constraints.
Let's clear all the values of
the decision variables, and
enter the following solution.
Choose A, B, E, and F.
We buy 5 groups from A and B,
3 groups from E, and 1 group from F.
We can verify that this solution
is feasible since it meets
all the constraints.
The total exposure of
the solution is 761,000.
This spreadsheet contains
an optimization model for this problem.
Let's take a look at it by clicking
on the ASP tab of the ribbon.
The objective function is to maximize
$J$4, that is total exposure.
The decision variables are in the block
from cell $E$9 to cell $F$15.
All the constraints in this model
are of the less than or equal type.
The left-hand sides are in
cells $I$9 to $I$18,
the right-hand sides are in $K$9 to $K$18.
Finally, the model forces the variables
in $E$9 to $E$15 to be binary,
and the variables in $F$9
to $F$15 to be integer.
Before solving, we verify that
the engine is set to the standard LP.
Click the green play button to solve.
The optimal solution engages publishers A,
B, E and G.
It prescribes the purchase
13 groups which result
in a total exposure of 876,200.
I know that with practice and
intuition it is possible to
create Excel models without ever
formulating the mathematical model.
However, I wanted to show to you
a mathematical formulation of a binary
problem, to give you a mental
picture of these models.
This should help you keep in mind
the three elements of an optimization
problem as you work on your Excel and
Solver models.